# Percona build of ProxySQL 3.0.1 and ProxySQL admin tools (2025-09-17)

--8<--- "rn-block-top.md"



## Release highlights

This release introduces the Percona build of ProxySQL 3.0.1, incorporating the latest upstream features and improvements. This version includes all enhancements and bug fixes from upstream [ProxySQL 3.0.1].

* Dual-password support: Enables use of two passwords for seamless rotation.  

* Enhanced logging (from v2.7.2): Real-time query/event logging using a circular buffer and SQLite. View logs in `stats_mysql_query_events`, `history_mysql_query_events`, and Prometheus.  

* Prepared statement logging ([#4895](https://github.com/sysown/proxysql/pull/4895), [#4922](https://github.com/sysown/proxysql/pull/4922)): Logs actual parameter values. Supports binary and JSON. Controlled by `mysql-eventslog_stmt_parameters` (disabled by default).  

* New event: `PROXYSQL_METADATA` ([#4922](https://github.com/sysown/proxysql/pull/4922)): Logged when a new binary log file is created. Includes version metadata.  

* DNS cache improvements ([#4745](https://github.com/sysown/proxysql/pull/4745)): Spreads out resolution attempts to avoid bursts and queue congestion.

### OpenSSL library

ProxySQL now uses a dynamically linked version of the system's OpenSSL library instead of a statically linked one.  This change allows ProxySQL to more easily use the most up-to-date and secure versions of OpenSSL already present on the host system.

Additionally, ProxySQL now logs a warning message if it detects a problematic or outdated OpenSSL version, alerting administrators to potential security risks.

See the [Packaging Notes](#packaging-notes) for unsupported distributions. 

!!! note

    [ProxySQL 3.0.1] contains a PostgreSQL module in beta. The Percona build of ProxySQL is only tested with Percona Server for MySQL.
  
## Bug fixes

[PSQLADM-564](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PSQLADM-564): If a password hash difference is detected, the `syncusers` command deletes and recreates the users, but this operation does not preserve the `default_schema` property. Thanks to George Mess for reporting this issue and contributing a patch. 

## Known issues

--8<--- "note-8.4.md"

## Packaging notes

ProxySQL 3 removed support for the following distributions ([#4749](https://github.com/sysown/proxysql/pull/4749)) due to two key reasons: they are either officially past their end-of-life or they lack native support for OpenSSL 3.0, a library required for modern security features:

| Distribution | Reason for Removal | EOL Date / Notes |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| CentOS 8 | Past official EOL | December 31, 2021 |
| Debian 10 (Buster) | Does not ship with OpenSSL 3.0 | LTS ended June 30, 2024 |
| Debian 11 (Bullseye) | Does not include OpenSSL 3.0 | Currently in LTS until Aug 2026 |
| Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic Beaver) | EOL and does not support OpenSSL 3.0 | EOL May 2023 |
| Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal Fossa) | Does not ship with OpenSSL 3.0 | EOL April 2025 |


## Additional resources
--8<--- "rn-ar.md"

[ProxySQL 3.0.1]: https://github.com/sysown/proxysql/releases/tag/v3.0.1